[Music]
all right okay so let's get started so
the
uh concept that we are going to talk
about now uh
is
called
version control
okay so
the idea of course is something that
every programmer will have any
requirement because so every programmer
knows that each time you save you know
every
every save is basically effectively
a new
uh
version of
the code okay now uh one
technology which
the
programmers have started using whenever
there are different versions is
uh the concept of make okay
so but that is basically
to compile only
those
parts of
code
that have
changed
okay so so that
allows for at least that you know as you
keep writing your code and modifying uh
you don't touch what has not been
modified so so it is compiled and that's
it you don't have to go back to look at
it okay so that way there is some
discipline about going about programming
now uh but still this is still in a
regime where there is only one person so
there are
requirements then when there is a
group you know so let us say a group of
programmers are working and
they are working on a major project so
you basically think of a
a mega project
okay and of course it entails
uh that there will be lots of codes
and that we would like to also would
like to think of it as
implying that lots of files
uh because you know that we are going to
have a modular approach
towards making our program okay so if it
is a modular approach then our code will
be broken down
so typically we would like to have one
file per
function that we are writing in the
program so we are talking about that as
a c programmer c plus plus program uh
then we would like to have uh in a c
plus code of course you would like to
have a class in one
file and in a c language you would like
to have each function as a separate file
okay so that you know once you're done
with the five function and you don't
have to go back to it
and why we would like to have a lot of
files is because of course there is a
group of programmers so
each programmer can
volunteer to work on a particular
function which means it's a particular
file
so there is a tacit understanding that
the rest of the programmers are not
going to touch it at the same time
typically okay and therefore they are
able to work together okay so naturally
so you'll have a situation where
each
programmer
has let us say
multiple
the versions of
each file
we worked on
okay so there's not just
one version
per file but you know every file that
they are saving you know if they are
saving 10 times a day it means that
there are 10 different versions of that
file
and
over the
programming duration and there will be a
large number of versions
and why is the version control necessary
okay so the version control
essentially is to
trace back
to a
working
version of code
okay so that is that's the idea
basically so
you have made some changes so it seems
to work fine and then you made one
purchase everything broke so naturally
the first thing that you would like to
do is just go back to the version that
worked fine and then
uh you know continue developing by by
not making the same mistake but making
maybe different mistakes okay that's how
life is but of course we keep you know
improving all this we have learned from
our mistakes always and we improve and
that's how we basically create new
version so the ability to trace back to
a working version of a code is must now
you can see that this entire scenario
entails that
the version
are going to be like you know
number of
users
into number of
files
into number of times you have got
the versions so that will be quite a
large
and you need a database to hold
this info okay
so you you because you know there are a
lot of files and a lot of users and
there are versions for every file and
therefore there is a way by which you
have to suppose to see keep track of all
these things and therefore we have a
requirement to keep it in a good
database
now uh there are some methodologies that
were followed in the past
to
go about this process and i would say
there are two ways of handling so you
can think of this
major categories as for example one is
called svm
okay so source version
controlling system
and
you can think of it as a
centrally hosted
and
managed
version system okay
and of course we also have git
which is basically uh
distributed okay
version control system
so so that is a major difference okay so
the difference between these is
is it central or is it distributed okay
of course there are people who still use
svn but there are two major categories
that people use
and
there are
pros and cons okay so svn allows for
one master who actually keeps track of
what is the version of the code that we
are actually officially supporting
and therefore the master is then going
on to essentially ensure that the same
version is replicated by others and
therefore whenever any person has any
doubt about that code you can just go to
the master server and bring the version
and then you know that there's a version
that everybody's supposed to have so
there's certain amount of simplicity and
clarify clarity that is there in this
approach but of course
the programs have all to be saved on
some storage systems and you know that
the typically the solar systems
when we talk about their failures
typically we don't say
versus storage systems you don't say you
know uh if it fails
no
what we always say is when it fails
so what does it mean it means that the
storage
there is no uncertainty that it will
fail okay it will definitely fail
because there are moving parts and there
is some heat generated and therefore
definitely there are going to be
failures in the hardware
so the problem our analysis should never
be if it fails because the if is not you
know
a possibility of probability because the
probability is 100 percent because it's
only a matter of time and therefore you
are supposed to ask when it fails what
would we do
so so
in that situation
if you have a master server on which the
code is stored
then when it fails you have a problem
okay you have a problem because
the entire software is down
nobody can actually access what is the
master uh
version of the source code
of course people can take into account
that you know the storages can be
failing and therefore they may have
multiple storages and they may have a
way by which if one hard disk fails the
others are also
able to you know chip it okay so
does anybody know i mean this is
something that i want to have a little
bit interaction uh we are going quite
fine with the syllabus we are going to
finish quite uh
soon so so i want to also you know uh
sort of finish up some some uh
loose ends as i go along okay so uh upon
germany we will come to the concept of
branch we will come to it little later
because the idea of a branch exists only
in git okay not in svn because in svn
the the concept uh i mean the word
called branch
has no special meaning like the way we
talk about it in git
okay because it has a much more
connotation you know there is lot more
uh to it the word is a very loaded word
so we'll come to it in a moment now i
want to ask you what is the technology
used by people around the world to
ensure that if one hard disk fails
it doesn't actually fail the storage
that you are still able to access the
file
can somebody volunteer and say what that
could be
anyone
i am sure in a in a large class like you
almost you know 50 students around
definitely there will be one person who
has heard of it
backup is a separate matter okay so you
can always take it by backup but
when the server you know
crashes i mean the storage box crashes
then
it is down so what i am saying is that
if there is a hard disk see if each hard
disk is a separate
you know hardware entity no it it is a
it's a unit that you are going to plug
in and give power so if that unit
actually fails
you don't want the ability to access
your file to be lost
backup is always something like you know
when you have burnt your hands you go
and you know apply some ointment it's
like that you know the problem has
already occurred and then you go and see
mitigate the problem to the extent by
bringing up a version that was there
earlier that is something you know uh
secondary
but to even avoid hardware failures what
is the technology that has been in place
for uh you know the storage systems
across the world and it's a standard
actually
no nobody yet
so i will give you a clue and i'll ask
you okay so
what is this
anybody anybody knows what is raid
says yes ah okay now uh go ahead and
tell showman what do you know about read
rate is the old versions but they still
use it right
yeah of course there are multiple
versions of raid
so so so the number that follows raid
you know raid 5 raid 6 so that questions
are always there but the idea of raid is
something that i want you to be aware
okay let us go ahead and then look at it
quickly because i don't want again to
take too much time so i would say
raid for
storage
okay
so this i'll just tell you what those
numbers are that's all okay so raid is
basically uh a way by which you would
like to have a redundancy okay so that
means you would like to have a
copy of
your file in multiple disks so that if
one disk fails you still have file
available to you that was the area
basically and
obviously you should have multiple disks
because you are talking about if one
disk actually has a problem there is
another disk that is responding to you
so that means there must be multiple
disks and therefore that is the idea of
array okay so the cab the concept of
array is because you need multiple uh
disks okay and
in terms of uh uh
the the
second third letter i so is it
independent disks or inexpensive disks
of course it up to us for us to
interpret but you know it's now today
red is actually almost like a word you
know i mean people don't expand it okay
now uh there are uh different versions
of it okay so here you see trade zero
raid one etcetera okay so each version
has certain names okay
now the idea of raid 0
okay you can just see the here okay
so so
what the rate 0
is basically to ensure that you have a
large disk
and you don't have one disc that can
have that same capacity and therefore
you would like to have a
two discs that are kept one after other
therefore you know you have got uh you
know ability to have a larger disc let
us say you wanted a 20 tb disk but in
the market there is only you know
10 tb disk so you can get two of them
now
one thing i want you to also remember is
whenever you have an array
it also means that speed up
okay so whenever you have got any file
that is actually stored over multiple
disks
and you are going to read it so each
disk can respond for different parts of
the file and therefore you actually can
get faster speed okay so so this is not
only about the redundancy but it is also
about the speed okay so
okay both both are necessary okay now
what is the kind of speed we are talking
about okay so for sata disks uh
6 gb per second is what we are talking
about and let us say you would like to
have
you know
jacked up let us say to 18 gb per second
so the you can't actually go and buy a
faster hard drive because they just
simply don't exist so the way to achieve
is because you have a concept of raid so
you can put multiple disks and therefore
when you are reading a file it can
actually come from three different disks
uh three parts of the file can come from
three different disks and therefore the
effective speed that you are gaining
from the system is actually 18 gbps and
not 6 gbps and therefore you are
actually getting the speed up so this is
also a important feature of
this technology now uh um
as as your colleague shopping was
asking about the version old and old
technology etc so here um raid 1 for
example is today a very uh
continuously being practiced version of
raid and that is because you know you
have
got mirroring okay now which means that
in fact in my computer i have got two
hard disks of
500 gb each which are basically in raid
1 which means that
if one of them goes off then other disk
is there so i am free from
the failure of our disk of course the
probability of a two disk simultaneously
having a problem is very rare and to
that extent i am actually having safety
okay so ah generally is asking about the
actual disk or virtual partition they
are actually on disks itself okay so
once the disks are actually made as read
then you create a volume logical volume
and it is a logical volume that you see
as a partition so think of the partition
is as a
abstraction level that is after raid has
been configured okay so it is not before
but it is after okay now there are some
raid options that you may be interested
okay so today raid 5 and raid 6 are
quite popular ok so raid 5
which actually has
both uh distributed as well as some
amount distributed parity as well as
some striping what it implies is that
when you have
okay raid 5 when you do on three disks
it means that if one disk goes off
absolutely there is no loss of data
okay there is no loss of data okay and
you can also get the speed up because
the file is coming from three disks
instead of
you know one disk so so today we have
got you know raid 5 and raid 6 very
popular to to have these things higher
versions of raid are also available okay
and
there are you know much larger concepts
of it when you go to huge storages like
like you know pita flop pita petabyte
storages etc where they have got you
know hadoop and
distributed storages etc and
what i want you to know today is that
when it comes to this
what you know when it fails is sort of
addressed by radio that's what i wanted
you to have heard of it okay it's
address by raid so when you buy a
workstation uh just check does it
contain a raid controller okay so there
is a card okay there is a pci
card
which is called as
raid controller
okay and this controller will have a
particular speed okay and that speed
actually tells you how how fast you can
get the data and so when and also it
will tell uh it will have a capacity of
how many disks it can actually talk to
okay so so for example my workstation is
a small workstation for my office so it
has about eight disks that it can talk
to so i have populated all of the eight
and i have got what is called as a hot
sphere
hot spare is basically a disc which we
keep plugged in but it is not being used
so if any of the existing disks fail
then automatically the hot sphere will
be put to use and i will have an amber
light on the failed disk so i can safely
take it out and the hot spare actually
be now uh configured in automatically so
that it is participating in the shared
storage of the files okay so
we can't plug out the disks uh randomly
we have once we configure them in the
raid we have to you know
not touch them
and whenever there is a error we have to
immediately you know replace the disk
but
if you do that advantage would be that
your storage can actually live for very
long because as the disks fail you can
keep replacing and your data is never
getting lost because uh think of it like
this you know
so it's like this you have got a file so
it you you
make it as you know
two parts three parts and let us say you
have got
the storage in this manner let us say so
four
uh hard disks so i will put the part one
here part 2 here
part 3 here and what i will do i will
put part 1 here also and i put part 2
here also and i put part 3 here also now
you see
that you know i have got
okay if let us say this fellow goes off
then i have got
1 here 2 here 3 here ok and let us say
if this fellow goes
then i have got 1 here
2 here and 3 here okay and let us say i
have got this fellow going i have got
one here i have got two here i have got
a three here okay and then let us say if
this fellow goes then i have got one
here two here three here so you can see
that i mean this is a very simple you
know illustration to show you that if i
just divide it by three parts and
arrange them in this manner if one of
the four hard disks fail i have no
problem at all because i have got
portions of it in other hard disks so i
can recoup so if one of them fail i can
replace it with a fresh hard disk and
then the system will automatically know
which part actually has been replaced
and it will go on to write that part
alone so that the raid configuration is
back to normal so which means that the
hard disks are actually live they are
being written all the time and the
computer is analyzing which part of
which file is in which hard disk and
ensuring that that particular hard disk
is alive and there are at least two
copies of every chunk okay i won't say
two copies of every file but two copies
of every chunk so which means that
which which actually means that
in a raid
okay rate config
usable
space is less than
uh
actual space okay so so for example uh
if you have got a 4 into 8 tb disks you
have 32 tb disk space but when you
configure as a raid 5
you may have about you know 26 db or so
okay so the remaining data is lost
because you know you are actually
repeating some portions so about one
third of what you have stored is
actually repeated and therefore
you can't have that but that comes with
a
a positive thing that you know one hard
disk crashes and you have no problem
okay so so much about raid and go on to
read about it for your own benefit i
don't need to talk about that okay so
next we will go and say okay now this
heart is failure is not a problem we
have controlled it but what happens when
the server itself is hacked and actually
the data loss okay so therefore svn has
that still problem okay because it may
actually still keep the data but if
somebody hacks in and wipes off then you
have a problem okay so for that the git
actually has a very uh
good idea because it is distributed
okay so which means that
if the master i mean if at all if you
want to call something as a master if
the master
server is actually suddenly disappeared
from the face of the earth nothing is
lost because
what this implies is that
every user okay or i would say
collaborator
has a
copy of everything
okay now obviously program codes are not
very large so therefore it doesn't
actually take
so much of space we are talking about
you know maybe few megabytes or maybe
100 mb of your programming
codes and therefore it doesn't matter if
everybody has a copy but it it gives a
redundancy and therefore
if any user wants to go on independently
they can actually start from where they
were and then start a new thread okay
and a new version of that particular
program and you can think of it as a
fork okay or a new branch okay so both
are having technical you know
differences we will come to that in a
moment when we actually use so a user
can actually go on to have their own
version of developing things
independently
and and therefore that also is more
democratic so it is that way
more preferred way of going about
now
it also
doesn't really
require a server okay the git system
doesn't require a server because
when you are alone you yourself can use
git and you can just simply have the
version control within your own machine
and you are the only person and that's
all it is okay so that's also possible
but it's a good idea to also have some
server okay now the the git system is
open source which means that you have
got the git system uh enabled for all
operating systems and you also have some
uh
free software a few free servers that
are allowing you to use it as a one of
the synchronizing
remote spots so
in git system there is some concept of
remote
so that means that it is basically some
server
with
which
we basically sync
okay
of course there is no need to do that of
course but but when we want to sync
because we would like to together
maintain some master version to that
extent only we want to sync up but each
user has a copy so that's the idea okay
so it's still not as if the remote
machine is down you don't have access to
the master version that's not true okay
so you have got the
version with you
at least as on the last synchronization
that you have done so by remote we mean
a server with which we try to
synchronize okay now there is a
way by which we connect and the protocol
is what is called as a git protocol and
that is now because it is open source it
is now adopted by people across the
globe and therefore there are many many
things that actually use the concept of
git but do totally different things you
know very unlike a programmer also okay
that's also fine there is no problem
because it is actually a protocol by
which you are actually exchanging
information with a remote okay and also
keeping the version control there is
only two aspects of it that we need to
basically think of okay now
you can have many many different options
of using it so one of course is
locally run
git server
okay
you may have for example
a
campus git server
okay
you may have a git lab okay some some
remotely hosted git server or you may
even have github
dot com okay now
i prefer that you start getting used to
the github.com
for multiple reasons
one reason is that it actually is a
cloud and which means that you don't
have to worry about how it is you know
storing files and
who is paying for it etc because it is
basically
taken care
by microsoft and the files are all meant
for public good of a whole world because
it contains lot of free software that
people are actually using to share and
all that is actually going to be there
and they also have taken a copy of
github as on last year and kept it in
arctic
uh vault uh
an underground you know storage system
so that even if there was a huge
uh you know
bomb attack on the data centers in
america you don't still lose your files
because there is one copy of it
somewhere kept aside okay so for the
future of humanity and so there are all
those kind of things that can be done by
a company and and that's what is the
advantage so so
starting to learn to use git with
github.com has some specific advantages
okay now there is other things that i
want to also tell you why you should
learn
is for this
that now
github.com uh insists from august
11th onwards i think okay
i think uh
the concept of two factor
uh authentication
okay
so so have you heard of two-factor
author anybody wants to tell what is
two-factor authentication
you may have done it already for google
account
because it's a good habit actually
so that you don't
you know
lose your password easily or lose access
to your account easily so so so anybody
wants to tell what is two-factor
authentication
raghwani may be knowing it
so showman says you need another
verification to log into the account
apart from password yeah that's about it
you know succinctly that's all it is
so there's must be one more way okay so
what does it mean by one more way
okay so
this is our okay you may have an app
and it will be telling you some otps and
that you need to enter
okay or you may have an app
that will ask you and you swipe and
confirm
okay and are you may actually have
an sms
that is coming to you as an otp and that
you enter
or you may have an email
which actually contains the otp and that
you enter
or you may have a set of codes
which you actually use it
to enter
and then authenticate so so set of codes
which are somewhat like you know
recovery etcetera okay and whenever you
say an app and an otp and all that so
most of these things for example up to
here
you have a phone okay number involved so
which means that
there is a certain you know uh uh way by
which we are trying to see who is it who
is the person who is actually using this
account
and that person uh is identified by the
phone number uniquely because you know
you are sending something and somebody
is checking that number and entering and
it is it is being done in a way that you
know requires some amount of human
action okay so preferably okay so that
is one way by which you can actually
ensure so you don't lose both so you
don't give away your password and also
you hand over your phone to somebody so
anybody who knows your password and has
your phone is basically you basically
okay it's as good as you and therefore
uh you know that's like totally la total
loss of identity and we don't do that so
we have only one of them losing at a
time and the immediate other one is
blocked okay as soon as you lose a phone
you go and uh go to the app and
in the website and then tell that you
know my phone is lost or you just simply
you know change the phone number to
something else and therefore you know
the the person who happens to gain
access to your phone doesn't have
actually the ability to mimic who you
are you can understand the
things on the internet okay so these are
the ideas so so the two factor
authentication is a must what we mean by
a must is
from august onwards it's a must
okay so by that we mean that you simply
cannot have only the password to
actually authenticate you must have
stood fighter authentication enabled and
you should use it while doing some
actions on the command line and that is
good but one of the things of
all these is that you also have it
the the second factor authentication
is sort of customized
for
each
you know i would say
repository
or activity
okay so why why i say activities because
in google for example if you are going
to have an account ah for each machine
on which you are going to have the
authentication happening for example you
are configuring thunderbird on your
machine and you are going to talk to
your google email account
then you can actually have a
what is called
access
token okay p-80
so you can have your token which is
basically a long string okay so you say
basically a
a string
and you can use that string as a
password okay and you can actually have
that specifically for certain
activities in the case of gmail or for
repositories in the case of github so
that you do not actually you know have
the same thing for multiple repositories
and therefore if you lose you still
don't need to worry about it much it
doesn't cause so much of damage of
course you can immediately go and you
know
block access that is always there you
can always revoke okay so these tokens
can be
revoked
in a click okay and and that is what is
actually gives you
safety okay so if you lose something
doesn't matter you can always revoke the
privileges privileges and gohan so i
want you to know about this and go ahead
and actually uh log into
github and start doing it so
the activities i would like you to do
are
i would say you know
login
okay please go and uh register yourself
on
github.com
and of course next step i would like you
to do is that
enable
two factor authentication and of course
you need some uh some
way of
enabling and i would say
for my side i would say prefer a
microsoft
authenticator
app on
android and that will give you those
otps you know
changing
every minute
okay to
enter okay then
when you need to login
so i will do the demo of it in a moment
and of course once you do that of course
you need to create a repo
and you need to practice how to
pull
push
okay and
do all the git actions okay so we will
do that okay we will do all of these in
a moment okay so ah
i think there are not too many students
who have been using it so if somebody is
actually
started to use git then i would like
them to share their screen so that i can
actually navigate and show
where the
options are okay so i just simply now
stop presenting and i'll ask one of you
who has a github account to see okay so
can you share anybody who has a
uh let me just see uh
anybody volunteer to show their uh you
know ability to log into git
github.com
i i i don't expect every one of you to
do it obviously because then i don't
need to have this session
but i am sure that in 50 students there
will be at least one who would have
already started to use git
so anybody who has used kit rather one
is
good go ahead go ahead i thought we also
discussed that we would like to have you
do that so go ahead so share your screen
browser okay yeah
i have
just created the account i don't know
how to use it ah no no problem that's
what i would actually guide you so uh on
the right hand side top there is your
photo okay and that when you click on it
there are a bunch of things that are
coming up right so
so go down to settings
okay now on the
left you can
scroll down and
okay developer settings just click on
the developer settings
huh so then personal access tokens is
there right
click on it
okay so now we need to basically create
a new token and with that you can
actually go ahead and use it okay so you
can click on that to generate a new
token there is an icon there right side
right top
so obviously it is asking you to log in
once more or confirm who you are
ah so now you need to describe what is
this token for let us say ok so you can
say you know a course demo or something
like that
let us say course demo
okay and then
you have to tell what are the actions
for which you are going to use this
token now you see this is a place where
you are controlling
what actions are possible for each of
these
you know tokens so the token that you
are giving i you don't want to do
anything about the administration or
deleting etc nothing so just click on
the repo the very first box
okay and obviously it has got a lot of
actions five of them so even you can
even remove that
repo invite from there okay so you don't
need that because you know you're not
going to invite others as of now
keep it keep it okay
fine okay leave it okay now you have uh
come down and you can uh
okay this is sufficient there are a lot
of actions that are possible uh and you
can say generate token click on generate
okay
okay now now uh be careful okay now
everybody's seeing this token so it's
okay doesn't matter we are already
learning so uh if you click on that the
keyboard icon which is ah if you click
on it it'll copy
okay copy it and immediately open a text
file and save it to the text file so
that you have
you know you don't forget it uh you know
at this moment okay so you can open a ba
editor or you can text file you can just
open va and save it okay so normally i
would actually call that as a pat the
files called pat
is a personal access token file
basically in which i can
just have that thing okay so v i p 80
okay
okay and then you put the put i and then
now just go above one shift o you press
shift o
oh shift capital o
no no while you are in the pi editor
shift o
don't insert okay just escape
now you write what was this meant for so
you said no course demo yes write that
name there so you you understand
uh you know that this token was for that
particular thing and and that's just for
you to get used to it later on there are
technologies to enable these tokens to
be stored by a ring a key ring and then
you don't need to actually see them at
all you can have them populated directly
by the key ring to that kit directly you
don't need to worry right now so right
now you save it
okay now you have got to your desktop so
you can just go to the browser again
and then what you can do is that okay
you have now what happens is if you
click anywhere else then you can't see
the token
okay so you can just click on let us say
github apps
just click on github apps
okay now come back again personal access
tokens
now you see that you have got a token
there
and by default you can't see it and of
course you can delete it
okay you can delete that okay if you
want okay
so so okay so that's one way by which
you can
you know have ability to just revoke it
okay now let us say you have got a
severe you know compromise on something
where your github passwords are stored
and that laptop has been
stolen or something what you would
normally do is come here and say revoke
all because you don't want your
permissions on any machine at all so
therefore you know nobody can use your
github access at all okay that's one at
one page and of course you can then
create the personal access tokens as you
like and keep using them now that that
long string is what you are going to use
it as a password basically
okay you don't give your own password
you give that long string as a password
that is a that's the thing that i want
you to know now uh once you have that
idea coming up okay now next thing you
are going to do is that we have to
create a repository and start working
with it okay so so click click on
your repositories okay go ahead
and you can create a new repository so
there's a button there new
okay and and give a name that your
first part of the
link is same so
just call it id20090 demo or something
yeah because you are going to do
something with this course as a
assignment also so just keep it as a
demo okay and leave it public leave it
public and let us say you know
add a readme file
okay and
create repository
okay
yeah so so the now repo is created now
don't have to do anything okay now what
you should do is uh find a way by which
you can uh you know replicate this onto
your
computer with the git command and start
to edit okay so what you do is you go to
the command line
okay and
choose a directory in which you would
like to do these actions
okay so for that what you do wait wait
wait wait wait wait wait wait
what you do is first you uh you know
make a
clone of that particular repo you are
already making it as a public report so
it doesn't actually ask a password so i
can you can type git
okay clone
and then give the url okay space give a
space and give the url of that
particular git id you can go to the
browser and actually copy it from the
browser you know that
yeah
come here and then
paste it and then in the end put a dot
uh git because that would be the
normally no dot g80
dot jt
yeah
remote.jt that is the name of the repo
basically now enter and then see what
happens
so it is already creating a directory
that's why i stopped you from creating
directory it's already created a
directory now go to the directory
oh okay go to there that is cd
the id20 whatever
yeah
enter ls put ls and now you see that
there is a file that is there okay now
you have basically replicated the
repository that was created on the
github.com
now you would like to edit it and push
these changes to the remote and
therefore you are able to basically
start working so go ahead and actually
go ahead and edit it just a vi
okay readme.md
okay and just you know
below that just
press o
okay added a line you can say added a
line from my pc
okay just to
uh
yeah now save it and come out
now what you need to do is you have to
basically configure this directory so
that the git understands that it's not
any other directory it is actually going
to talk to the
git server so what you should do is type
a command git init
git in it
no no git space in it i n i t init
initiation
yeah
okay enter
okay now it has initialized what it
implies by saying initialized is it
actually has created a directory called
dot git okay go and see what is in the
dot git
go to dot git cd dot git
okay and put ls minus l a
and you see that it has created a whole
bunch of things okay it has created a
whole bunch of things which are called
as hooks
logs objects references index and
whatnot right and and so these are all
branches okay these are all basically
the paraphernalia that git will be
requiring to understand which version
you are working etc
so don't watch anything okay just come
back okay cd dot dot
okay see it is space dot
so we don't always say
don't don't don't kill kill kill
percentage kill space percent
enter yeah
so i just killed the the
see when you put control z it actually
makes the program what was running
become
a
background job and that's not a good
idea so you i just made you kill the
background job so when you say kill
percentage sign it means kill the
background job that's what is the
meaning of that command anyway now uh
this one uh requires you to basically
start
uh working with your git account so
you have to con you have to tell
what was your you know
remote
machine okay and start doing some things
on it so
what you do here is
okay
tell
there's a remote server for it so git
space remote space
space remote space add
okay and then space and then you have to
give a name for this so let us say
master
let us say master okay and space and and
master is the name for the remote
machine remote location of this
particular directory and you have to
give a url so you already have the url
so you can type that url okay and enter
okay now now it understands that there
is a remote location that you have
configured okay now how are you going to
talk to it you should tell that so for
that you should write
git config git space config
okay minus minus global
minus minus 2 minus s minus minus global
minus minus global
minus minus
global global okay space
uh user dot name
okay space and in quotes you give
your user name
okay
okay your your username on the github
okay enter
okay now now you don't need to keep
password because you are going to give
it on the uh you know
on the flight but you should also
configure the email because the
authentication can take place using
either username or email so it's a good
idea to tell that so again type git
config minus minus global user.email
okay user.email
and give the user.email not name no no
just go back go back a little bit yeah
yeah now ebay
and then uh in backspace and then the
course you put the email which you were
actually configuring your github account
whatever email that you had
while registering so that was the email
that you were supposed to give there
okay gmail.com okay whatever that email
which you have configured basically okay
enter
and and and what happens is that from
now on whenever you do any action with
respect to the remote server it will
actually
check
as if it is supposed to be done by uh
mamba helsinki and then it will check
whether something has to be done or not
okay so now let us say git
status
okay so it will it will check what is
happening now you see that it has
recognized that you know there is
something that has changed okay
and you have changed your file so you
need to basically ensure that these
changes are calculated to the server
also right so what we do is we have to
basically before we
push the changes to the server what we
do is that we have to note down what is
it that i am going to do like a message
for the committee so you try to get
ad
okay and then readme dot md okay just
press r and then the tab it will work
yeah okay enter
okay i
read it.mdmd
okay now now uh uh it has staged okay it
is becoming ready for you to push that
uh file to the remote server basically
now you have to also tell what have you
done so you have to tell by giving a
comment uh can you just hide the google
me thing that's on the screen
ah yeah okay good now
git commit get commit
minus m
okay now in space in give a space and in
the quotations you write a message
which is helpful you can say
you can say modified
from laptop something like that some
some message to say what have you done
okay so so that's a that's a like a
message for the changes you have done
you can say sometimes fix some error or
something like that okay so enter
okay now what happens is that it is
now
noted down what files have to be pushed
and it has noted on what changes have
been done so it is ready to perform okay
now
comes the important part now when you
try to push
because the server is actually
configured with you uh it has to
authenticate against you so it needs a
personal access token so go ahead and
create it and note it down and keep it
ready
okay
again and yeah yeah don't delete it you
keep it because your github will work
as long as you have it
okay should i only
it now yeah yeah create it and leave it
like that because once you delete it it
means that you don't have access to it
again
okay yeah
create one
the same name or different yeah you can
use the same name not a problem
yeah come down
create token
okay and copy it
and come here and to be safe just type
va
dot dot by p a t
v i
dot v a dot dot by p a t
by p a t no no dot dot slash slash slash
slash p a t why what i am doing is i am
not asking you to store the password in
the github itself that's very crazy then
everybody in the world will know your
password so so i'm storing one level up
so it is not available to others so
enter and here you just paste it
i and paste it i and paste it
and paste it paste it here and then
delete the other one
so you don't actually get confused
yeah
okay save it and come out
person yeah you have to escape escape
and save
okay now i will tell you something for
the beginners a bit easy to do so when
you are actually going to do the push
command it will ask for password and you
need it readily so you can say cat dot
dot by pat
okay
so enter it and and and it's there on
the screen so you are ready to copy
paste it so now you say git push
okay okay and and it knows where to push
so you just type enter and see what
happens okay you give the user name
okay and the password what you do is you
give this particular string which is ghp
whatever double click it on it and then
paste it
yes
enter yeah so it has actually accepted
your authentication it has pushed the
content now what you do is you go to the
browser
okay and go to your
you know repository
and you see that line has come up
yes
so what you did on your server on your
machine has now appeared on the server
okay now
now i i will illustrate in the next
session
uh on how i can make a change and you
can approve it
okay
and we will also do it with each other
so that multiple people can actually go
and
make changes so that all of us can
collaborately author some document okay
i will do that okay so so next tomorrow
session i will show you how to do that
so for now this demo i hope was useful
so people can actually see what we are
doing